>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20: NORTH
KOREA SAYS IT WAS NOT BEHIND THE
CYBER ATTACK ON SONY PICTURES
AND WARNS OF CONSEQUENCES IF THE
U.S. RETALIATES.
IN IRAQ, KURDISH FORCES
SUPPORTED BY U.S. AIR STRIKES
MAKE GAINS AGAINST ISIS.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, A
GEORGIA TOWN’S STRUGGLE TO
DECIDE WHETHER TO ALLOW A MOSQUE
TO BE BUILT IN THE FACE OF
BRUTAL ISIS ATTACKS OVERSEAS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
NORTH KOREA TODAY CALLED THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION’S CLAIMS
THAT IT WAS BEHIND THE CYBER
ATTACK ON SONY "SLANDER" AND
THREATENED TO RETALIATE UNLESS
THE UNITED STATES AGREES TO
CONDUCT A JOINT INVESTIGATION
ABOUT THE MATTER.
ITS COMMENTS WERE INCLUDED IN A
STATEMENT READ ON STATE-
CONTROLLED TELEVISION.
AMERICAN OFFICIALS SAY THE
ATTACK WAS SIMILAR TO OTHERS
CARRIED OUT BY THE NORTH
KOREANS.
CHINESE AUTHORITIES HAVE
DETAINED A 74-YEAR-OLD AMERICAN
MISSIONARY, PETER HAHN.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED YESTERDAY
NEAR CHINA’S BORDER WITH NORTH
KOREA.
REUTERS TODAY QUOTED SOURCES AS
SAYING HUNDREDS OF CHRISTIAN
MISSIONARIES HAVE BEEN FORCED
OUT OF CHINA SINCE AUGUST.
THE UNITED STATES HAS FREED FOUR
MORE DETAINEES FROM THE MILITARY
DETENTION CENTER AT GUANTANAMO
BAY, CUBA.
THE FOUR, ALL FROM AFGHANISTAN,
WERE RETURNED HOME AFTER BEING
RELEASED LATE YESTERDAY AT THE
REQUEST OF THE NEW AFGHAN
PRESIDENT, ASHRAF GHANI.
THE U.S. HAS FREED 23 PRISONERS
FROM GUANTANAMO THIS YEAR.
132 REMAIN IMPRISONED THERE.
NEW HOSTILITIES BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND HAMAS.
A ROCKET FIRED FROM GAZA LANDED
IN ISRAEL YESTERDAY, AND ISRAEL
RESPONDED BY BOMBING WHAT IT
CALLED A "TERROR SITE" IN GAZA.
IT WAS THE FIRST ISRAELI AIR
STRIKE IN GAZA SINCE A TRUCE
WENT INTO EFFECT IN AUGUST.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
HAS FILED FORMAL COMPLAINTS
AGAINST McDONALD’S AND SOME OF
ITS FRANCHISE OWNERS.
THE GOVERNMENT ALLEGES THEY
FIRED OR INTIMIDATED EMPLOYEES
FOR TAKING PART IN UNION
ORGANIZING AND IN PROTESTS
DEMANDING HIGHER WAGES.
THE COMPLAINTS WILL BE
CONSIDERED BY ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
JUDGES BEGINNING IN MARCH.
ANOTHER MAJOR SECURITY BREACH,
THIS TIME AT STAPLES.
THE OFFICE SUPPLY CHAIN SAYS
HACKERS APPARENTLY STOLE THE
FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF 1.2
MILLION OF ITS CUSTOMERS
THROUGHOUT THE SUMMER AND FALL.
THEY GAINED ACCESS TO SHOPPERS’
NAMES, CREDIT CARD NUMBERS, CARD
EXPIRATION DATES AND
VERIFICATION CODES.
IN MILWAUKEE, THERE WERE DOZENS
OF ARRESTS LAST NIGHT AFTER
PROTESTERS BLOCKED TRAFFIC ON A
MAJOR HIGHWAY DURING RUSH HOUR.
THE DEMONSTRATORS WERE
PROTESTING THE KILLING OF AN
UNARMED BLACK MAN BY A WHITE
POLICE OFFICER EARLIER THIS
YEAR.
THE OFFICER HAS NOT BEEN
CHARGED.
THE DEAD MAN, 31-YEAR-OLD DONTRE
HAMILTON, HAD A HISTORY OF
MENTAL PROBLEMS.
HE WAS SHOT 14 TIMES.
AND AN INTERNAL INVESTIGATION
REVEALED THAT THE F.B.I.
ROUTINELY MISHANDLES, MISLABELS
OR LOSES EVIDENCE.
ACCORDING TO THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," INVESTIGATORS EXAMINED
MORE THAN 41,000 PIECES OF
EVIDENCE AT F.B.I. OFFICES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND FOUND
PROBLEMS WITH NEARLY HALF OF
THEM.
THE F.B.I. IS NOW ALERTING
PROSECUTORS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
THAT THESE ERRORS MAY NEED TO BE
DISCLOSED TO SOME DEFENDANTS,
POTENTIALLY UNDERMINING CRIMINAL
CASES.
>> Sreenivasan: IN RECENT DAYS,
PRO-WESTERN KURDISH FIGHTERS,
BACKED BY AMERICAN AIR POWER,
HAVE FORCED ISIS FIGHTERS IN
NORTHERN IRAQ TO RETREAT FROM
TERRITORY THEY SEIZED LAST
SUMMER.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW BY ANTHONY CORDESMAN
OF THE CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES IN
WASHINGTON.
CORDESMAN PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN
THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND WAS THE
DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE
ASSESSMENT IN THE OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
SO, WHAT HAPPENED IN THE PAST
FEW DAYS?
>> WHAT HAPPENED IS THAT A
COMBINATION OF SYRIAN AND IRAQI
KURDISH FORCES, BACKED BY U.S.
AND OTHER AIRPOWER, OPENED UP A
LINE WHERE YAZDIS-- THESE ARE A
MINORITY GROUP WHO HAVE BEEN
STRANDED ON A MOUNTAIN RANGE FOR
MONTHS-- COULD ACTUALLY MOVE OUT
ALONG THE GROUND.
NOW, THIS WAS IMPORTANT NOT ONLY
BECAUSE THE YAZDIS FOR THE FIRST
TIME WERE GIVEN A SECURE GROUND
ROUTE TO ESCAPE, BUT THERE ARE
ESTIMATES UP TO 8,000 KURDISH
TROOPS WERE INVOLVED, THAT THEY
WERE ABLE TO MAKE EFFECTIVE USE
OF AIR SUPPORT, THAT THIS IS THE
LARGEST OPERATION SO FAR AS AN
OFFENSIVE GROUND-AIR OPERATION
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO
STRATEGICALLY IT’S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE THEY ARE ABLE TO
MAINTAIN CONTROL OF A REGION?
>> WELL, IT’S IMPORTANT BECAUSE
THEY WERE ABLE TO OPERATE A
SIGNIFICANT GROUND FORCE WITH
AIR SUPPORT.
WE NEED TO REMEMBER THAT AGAIN
AND AGAIN, WE’VE BEEN TOLD IT’S
GOING TO TAKE TWO TO THREE YEARS
TO CREATE AN EFFECTIVE
COMBINATION OF KURDISH, IRAQI,
AND SUNNI IRAQI FORCES THAT
COULD ACTUALLY LIBERATE THE
PARTS OF IRAQ OCCUPIED BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
THIS IS NOT A DECISIVE VICTORY.
THE ISLAMIC STATE IS STILL
MAKING SOME GAINS IN THE SOUTH.
IT HASN’T AFFECTED THE SITUATION
IN SYRIA.
THERE STILL HAS BEEN NO REALLY
EFFECTIVE OPERATION BY THE IRAQI
GROUND TROOPS, EXCEPT IN A
REFINERY AREA IN BEIJI.
THIS IS VERY EARLY DAYS IN A
VERY LONG BUT LOW-LEVEL
STRUGGLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
IRAQI GROUND TROOPS, THERE
HAVE BEEN REPORTS THAT THERE
HAVE BEEN ALMOST MASS DESERTIONS
IN SOME CORNERS FROM SHIITE
FORCES THAT SIGNED UP.
THEY WERE CRUCIAL IN ORDER TO
TAKE BACK CERTAIN GAINS ISIS HAS
MADE, BUT IS IRAQ SLIPPING AGAIN
FROM MAINTAINING THAT MORALE AND
MAINTAINING THAT TROOP FORCE
THAT CAN HOLD OFF ISIS?
>> WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THERE
ARE AN AWFUL LOT OF REPORTS
HERE, AND SOME OF THEM ARE MORE
ACCURATE THAN OTHERS.
THERE WERE A LOT OF SHIITE
MILITIAS INVOLVED.
THESE ARE NOT FORCES THAT CAN
REALLY STAY ON THE GROUND.
THEY REALLY HAD ONLY LIMITED
CAPABILITY TO PUSH ISLAMIC
FORCES OUT.
THEY WERE HELPFUL IN DEFENSE.
THE CORE IS THE IRAQI ARMY,
FRANKLY, COLLAPSED UNDER THE
PREVIOUS PRIME MINISTER, A
COMBINATION OF CORRUPTION, BAD
LEADERSHIP.
ALMOST EVERYTHING THAT COULD GO
WRONG DID.
WE ARE NOW TRYING TO SALVAGE
SOME NINE BRIGADES OUT OF A
FORCE THAT ONCE HAD 46 BRIGADES.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SO
WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE MOSUL
AREA NOW?
>> WELL, THE FACT IS IT REMAINS
UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE.
THE AIR CAMPAIGN, EFFORTS TO
SHUT OFF THE ILLEGAL EXPORT OF
PETROLEUM-- ALL OF THESE HAVE
WEAKENED THE ISLAMIC STATE.
THERE IS REALLY A PROBLEM WITH
POWER.
ALMOST ALL OF IT HAS TO COME
FROM LOCAL GENERATORS.
THERE ARE PROBLEMS WITH WATER.
THERE ARE NO REAL JOBS IN THE
AREA, AND, ODDLY ENOUGH, IT’S
THE IRAQI CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
THAT IS PAYING FOR THE SCHOOLS
THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE NOW
SUPERVISES.
SO YOU HAVE SOME ELEMENTS OF A
STATE FROM THE ISLAMIC STATE BUT
THE SITUATION IN MOSUL AND THE
AREAS IT CONTROLS SEEMS TO BE
STEADILY DETERIORATING.
>> Sreenivasan: ANTHONY
CORDESMAN JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
A NEW PEW POLL SHOWS THAT
AMERICANS FEEL MUCH LESS
FAVORABLY TOWARD MUSLIMS THAN
THEY DO TOWARDS JEWS, CATHOLICS
AND EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANS, AND
THE U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TOLD
THE NEWSHOUR WEEKEND YESTERDAY
THAT A "SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER"
PERCENTAGE OF DISCRIMINATION
CASES IT IS INVESTIGATING
INVOLVE SITES WHERE MUSLIMS
WORSHIP.
THE NEWSHOUR’S WILLIAM BRANGHAM
RECENTLY VISITED A RURAL GEORGIA
TOWN THAT APPROVED THE OPENING
OF A MOSQUE, BUT ONLY AFTER A
LARGE PUBLIC OUTCRY AND THE
THREAT OF A LAWSUIT.
>> Reporter: NASSER OMER IS AN
ACCOUNTANT, HUSBAND AND FATHER
OF TWO GROWN KIDS.
THIS INDIAN-AMERICAN IS ALSO A
DEVOUT MUSLIM, AND, AS SUCH, HE
TRIES TO GET TO HIS NEAREST
MOSQUE AS OFTEN AS POSSIBLE TO
PRAY.
>> FOR MUSLIM MEN, IT IS
MANDATORY TO PRAY FIVE TIMES A
DAY IN CONGREGATION.
THAT IS THE REASON WE NEED TO GO
TO THE MOSQUE.
>> Reporter: OMER LIVES IN
KENNESAW, GEORGIA, A RURAL
COMMUNITY OF ABOUT 30,000
PEOPLE.
IT’S JUST OVER 25 MILES
NORTHWEST OF ATLANTA, A QUIET
TOWN, ONE WHERE CONFEDERATE
FLAGS FLY FREELY.
THERE ARE AT LEAST 40 DIFFERENT
CHURCHES IN KENNESAW BUT NO
MOSQUE, SO OMER-- ONE OF PERHAPS
A HUNDRED MUSLIMS IN TOWN-- HAS
TO DRIVE TO THE NEIGHBORING TOWN
OF MARIETTA WHERE THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF MOSQUES.
HOW FAR IS THE NEAREST MOSQUE
FOR YOU TO GO TO NOW?
>> IT’S ABOUT TEN MILES FROM
HERE, AND IT TAKES ABOUT 30
MINUTES FROM MY HOME TO THE
MOSQUE, ONE WAY.
AFTER THE PRAYERS, AGAIN, 30
MINUTES TO COME BACK.
>> Reporter: A FEW MONTHS AGO,
OMER AND A FEW OTHER MUSLIM
FAMILIES DECIDED THEY’D LIKE TO
OPEN THEIR OWN SMALL MOSQUE IN
THEIR OWN TOWN.
THEY FOUND THIS STRIP MALL WHICH
HAD MULTIPLE VACANCIES, THE
PRICE WAS RIGHT, AND SO THEY
FILED THE PAPERWORK TO OPEN A
SMALL STOREFRONT MOSQUE RIGHT
HERE.
IT’S SIMILAR TO WHAT THIS
PENTECOSTAL CHURCH HAD DONE
A FEW MONTHS BEFORE IN A
DIFFERENT STRIP MALL.
TO HELP THEM WITH THE PROCESS,
THEY ENLISTED A LOCAL MUSLIM
COMMUNITY LEADER, AMJAD
TAUFIQUE.
HE’D HELPED SET UP ANOTHER
MOSQUE IN MARIETTA.
SO, WHY DOES KENNESAW NEED A
MOSQUE?
>> WELL, I MEAN, MUSLIMS TRY TO
MAKE IT FIVE TIMES A DAY TO THE
MOSQUE, AND, IN THIS DAY AND
AGE, IT’S A LITTLE DIFFICULT TO
BE THERE FIVE TIMES A DAY.
BUT USUALLY, IF YOU ARE CLOSE
ENOUGH-- FIVE, TEN MINUTES’
DRIVE-- YOU CAN GO THERE EARLY
IN THE MORNING PRAYERS, IN THE
EVENING PRAYERS AT LEAST.
AND YOU BUILD UP THE COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: AT FIRST, THE
APPLICATION PROCESS WAS ROUTINE.
THE ZONING BOARD OKAYED THE
IDEA, BUT, AS WORD GOT OUT ABOUT
THE PROPOSED MOSQUE, SOME
OPPONENTS SHOWED UP IN FORCE AT
THE NEXT PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING.
CRIS EATON WELSH, WHO THINKS THE
MOSQUE SHOULD BE APPROVED, SITS
ON THE KENNESAW CITY COUNCIL.
>> FROM MY UNDERSTANDING, THERE
WERE OVER 200 PEOPLE THAT SHOWED
UP TO THE MEETING, AND THERE...
>> Reporter: AND THAT’S UNUSUAL?
>>VERYUNUSUAL.
YOU MIGHT HAVE THREE PEOPLE,
FIVE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: IS THAT RIGHT?
NORMALLY THREE PEOPLE SHOW UP?
YOU HAD 200 THIS TIME?
>> 200 PEOPLE SHOW UP THIS TIME.
AND IT WAS: "YOU CAN’T LET THIS
IN OUR COMMUNITY, THEY’RE GOING
TO PRACTICE SHARIA LAW," AND
LOTS OF FEAR, AND, I BELIEVE,
MISUNDERSTANDING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: IT CERTAINLY DIDN’T
HELP THAT THE DAY BEFORE THE
CITY COUNCIL WAS TO HOLD THEIR
NEXT MEETING TO DISCUSS THE
MOSQUE, THE ISLAMIC MILITANT
GROUP ISIS RELEASED ANOTHER
VIDEO SHOWING THE BEHEADING OF
ANOTHER AMERICAN, THIS TIME AID-
WORKER AND FORMER U.S. ARMY
RANGER, PETER KASSIG.
WELSH SAYS THIS ONGOING VIOLENCE
BY SOME MUSLIMS IN THE MIDDLE
EAST MADE ANY MOVES BY A MUSLIM
GROUP IN GEORGIA SEEM SUSPICIOUS
TO SOME PEOPLE IN HER COMMUNITY.
>> AND THEY’RE SEEING IT EVERY
SINGLE NIGHT ON THE NEWS, AND...
AND I THINK THAT INSTILLS...
>> Reporter: SEEING ISIS AND AL
QAEDA, BEHEADINGS...
>> ISIS AND AL-QAEDA, UH-HUH.
>> Reporter: AND SO THEY THOUGHT
THAT THIS WAS GOING TO BE AN
OUTPOST FOR ISIS?
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
>> Reporter: OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS, WE’VE BEEN
ASKING PEOPLE AROUND TOWN WHAT
THEY THINK OF THE PROPOSED
MOSQUE, AND THE REACTIONS HAVE
BEEN SPLIT ABOUT 50/50-- HALF
THE PEOPLE FOR, HALF AGAINST.
THE INTERESTING THING THOUGH IS
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE AGAINST THE
MOSQUE WERE VERY RELUCTANT TO
TALK WITH US ABOUT IT ON-CAMERA.
SUPPORTERS OF THE MOSQUE,
HOWEVER, WERE VERY EAGER TO
TALK.
>> YOU KNOW, THEY HAVE EVERY
RIGHT TO WORSHIP WHERE THEY
WANT.
IT REALLY DOESN’T BOTHER
ME.
I MEAN, I HOPE IT GOES THROUGH
FOR THEM AND, YOU KNOW, I HOPE
IT’S SUCCESSFUL.
>> I DON’T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
THE MOSQUE COMING TO TOWN.
I THINK THAT THIS COUNTRY’S
BUILT ON RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, AND
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD RESPECT
THAT.
>> I DO HAVE PREJUDICE...
PREJUDICES LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE
THAT’S BEEN FORMED WITH ALL THE
9/11 AND EVERYTHING THAT’S BEEN
GOING ON.
I’M A LIVE-AND-LET-LIVE TYPE OF
PERSON.
AND AS LONG AS PEOPLE ARE GOOD
CITIZENS-- LIKE I TRY TO BE--
IT’S OKAY WITH ME.
>> I DON’T WANT SHARIA LAW IN
GEORGIA.
>> Reporter: WE WERE ABLE TO
TRACK DOWN ONE CRITIC WHO
WOULD SPEAK PUBLICLY.
CHAD LEGERE WORKS AT A FIRE-
PROOFING COMPANY AND LIVES IN A
NEIGHBORING GEORGIA TOWN.
HE SAYS FROM WHAT HE’S SEEN OF
GROUPS LIKE ISIS AND AL QAEDA,
HE CAN’T TRUST THE INTENTIONS OF
ANY MUSLIMS.
DO YOU KNOW THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
BEHIND THIS MOSQUE?
I MEAN, THEY SAY, "WE’VE BEEN
LIVING IN THIS COMMUNITY FOR
DECADES"-- SOME OF THEM, 20-30
YEARS-- "WE’VE RAISED OUR
FAMILIES, WE GO TO SCHOOL, AND
WE’VE NEVER SHOWN A TRACE OF
VIOLENCE."
DOES THAT EXAMPLE NOT CONVINCE
YOU THAT THEY MIGHT HAVE
DIFFERENT INTENTIONS THAN YOU
THINK?
>> LIKE I SAID, PROVE IT.
GO ON RECORD CONDEMNING ISIS.
I HAVEN’T SEEN IT.
AND DEFINITELY NOT ON A
WIDESPREAD LEVEL.
WHY ARE CHRISTIANS RUNNING
AROUND SCARED?
WHY DID THEY... WHY DID THEY
NEED TO PUT A MOSQUE INSIDE A
SHOPPING CENTER?
WHAT’S THE NEXT STEP?
WAL-MARTS?
WE GOING TO HAVE A MOSQUE AT
EVERY WAL-MART?
>> WHAT THEY’VE SEEN IN THE NEWS
MEDIA IS A SMALL, YOU KNOW,
GROUP OF PEOPLE ACTING UPON
THEMSELVES, CALLING THEMSELVES
MUSLIMS AND DOING THE THINGS
THAT ARE HEINOUS CRIMES.
AND WE AS MUSLIMS IN AMERICA,
YOU KNOW, DEFINITELY DO NOT
CONDONE THOSE ACTS AT ALL.
WE CONDEMN THOSE ACTS.
WE ARE AGAINST THOSE AS MUCH AS
ANYBODY ELSE.
>> Reporter: YOU MENTIONED THAT
YOU CONDEMN THESE ACTS, AND THIS
IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
HEARD FROM PEOPLE IS THAT THEY
FEEL THAT THE AMERICAN MUSLIM
COMMUNITY DOESN’T DO ENOUGH TO
CONDEMN THE ACTS OF ISIS AND AL
QAEDA.
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE TO THAT?
>> I’M REALLY, YOU KNOW, TRYING
TO DO THIS FOR PAST SO MANY
YEARS.
IT’S JUST DON’T KNOW HOW ELSE
CAN WE GO OUT AND REACH OUT TO
THE COMMUNITY AND TELL THEM THAT
WE’VE DONE THAT AND CONTINUE TO
DO THAT.
THERE ARE WEB SITES WHICH GIVES
LINKS AFTER LINKS AFTER LINKS
WHERE MUSLIMS, NOT ONLY IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA BUT ALL
AROUND THE WORLD, HAVE CONDEMNED
THESE ACTS.
AND WE CONTINUE TO DO THAT
BECAUSE THIS IS REALLY NOT
ISLAM.
>> I’M A PRACTICING CATHOLIC.
YOU KNOW, I DON’T UNDERSTAND
THEIR RELIGION, BUT I KNOW THAT
OUR FOUNDING FATHERS MEANT IT
WHEN THEY PENNED THE
CONSTITUTION, AND THAT MEANS
THAT WHETHER I AGREE WITH IT OR
NOT, THEY’VE GOT THE RIGHT TO BE
THERE.
>> Reporter: BUT CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER WELSH SAYS THE ANTI-
MUSLIM VITRIOL ONLY GOT WORSE
WHEN THE CITY COUNCIL HAD TO
FINALLY VOTE TO APPROVE OR DENY
THE PROPOSED MOSQUE.
WELSH, WHO BY DAY IS A
CHIROPRACTOR, WIFE AND MOM OF
TWO YOUNG GIRLS, SAYS THE DAY
OF THAT VOTE WAS A SCARY ONE.
>> THE MONDAY OF THE VOTE,
AROUND 4:00 IN THE AFTERNOON, I
WAS HERE IN MY OFFICE, AND A
POLICE OFFICER CAME OVER IN THE
MIDDLE OF MY PATIENT HOURS AND
SAID THAT SHE NEEDED TO SPEAK TO
ME.
AND I WAS LIKE, "I’M REALLY
BUSY."
AND SHE SAID, "NO, I HAVE TO
TALK TO YOU NOW."
AND MY FACEBOOK INFORMATION, MY
CHILDREN’S PICTURES, MY OFFICE
PHONE NUMBER, MY HOME ADDRESS,
MY OFFICE FACEBOOK PAGE HAD ALL
BEEN RELEASED ONTO A HATE SITE.
AND SENDING ME SOME VERY GRAPHIC
TORTURE PICTURES OF ISIS AND
SAYING, "THIS IS THE KIND OF
THING THAT YOU’RE TRYING TO
BRING TO OUR COMMUNITY, WHAT
KIND OF PERSON ARE YOU?"
AND AT THAT POINT, I GOT A
LITTLE RATTLED.
>> ANTI-ISLAMIC PROTESTERS
DEMONSTRATED OUTSIDE KENNESAW
CITY HALL.
>> Reporter: THE POLICE ESCORTED
WELSH OVER TO CITY HALL FOR THE
VOTE.
PROTESTERS HAD ALREADY BEEN
GATHERING, MANY FROM OUT OF
TOWN, AND THEY WERE HAPPY TO
SPEAK OUT.
>> TO ME, IT IS A THREAT TO MY
FREEDOM, MY LIBERTIES AND
EVERYTHING I OWN, INCLUDING MY
KIDS’ LIVES AND MY LIFE, FOR
THAT MATTER.
>> THEY’RE TRAINING THEIR KIDS
HOW TO DO TERRIBLE THINGS TO
AMERICANS, AND WE’RE TRYING TO
STOP IT.
>> Reporter: THAT NIGHT, THE
CITY COUNCIL VOTED DOWN THE
PROPOSED MOSQUE, 4-1.
WELSH WAS THE ONLY ONE VOTING
IN FAVOR.
THE CITY COUNCIL DIDN’T GIVE ANY
REASON WHY THEY REJECTED THE
MOSQUE PROPOSAL, AND NO ONE ON
THE COUNCIL APART FROM WELSH
WOULD TALK WITH US.
THE MAYOR OF KENNESAW HAS SAID
THAT THE DEBATE HAD NOTHING TO
DO WITH RELIGION.
INSTEAD, HE SAID IT WAS BASED ON
CONCERNS ABOUT PROPER ZONING,
PARKING AND TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
BUT ATLANTA ATTORNEY DOUG
DILLARD SAYS THOSE CAN’T BE THE
SOLE REASONS.
>> PARKING, TRAFFIC, HOURS OF
OPERATION, ALL THAT KIND OF
THING CAN BE DEALT WITH,
BUT THEY CANNOT BE, IN AND OF
THEMSELVES, A REASON TO DENY THE
APPLICATION.
>> Reporter: DILLARD IS BUILDING
A LAWSUIT AGAINST KENNESAW ON
BEHALF OF THE MOSQUE GROUP.
HE REPRESENTED TWO OTHER MOSQUES
IN TWO OTHER GEORGIA TOWNS IN
RECENT YEARS WHO’D BEEN DENIED
PERMITS TO BUILD OR EXPAND, AND
BOTH TIMES HE’D HELPED THE
MOSQUES MOVE FORWARD.
DILLARD SAYS KENNESAW, JUST LIKE
THOSE OTHER TOWNS, IS VIOLATING
BOTH CONSTITUTIONAL AND
FEDERAL PROTECTIONS AGAINST
RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION.
DILLARD SAYS JUST LOOK AT THAT
PENTECOSTAL CHURCH THAT WAS
ALLOWED IN THAT OTHER STRIP
MALL.
HE SAYS KENNESAW CAN’T
GREENLIGHT A CHRISTIAN CHURCH
AND THEN TURN AROUND AND DENY
THE MUSLIM MOSQUE.
>> I THINK THE REASON FOR THE
OPPOSITION IS THAT THIS IS A
GROUP OF MUSLIMS.
THEY DON’T WANT THEM TO WORSHIP
IN KENNESAW, PERIOD.
THEY DON’T CARE WHERE YOU PUT
THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT DO YOU HAVE ANY
EVIDENCE THAT THAT’S THE CASE?
>> ONLY THROUGH THEIR ACTIONS
HAVING APPROVED CHRISTIAN AND
OPPOSING THE MUSLIMS, AND IF YOU
LOOK AT THE OPPOSITION--
"TERRORISTS GO HOME"-- IT’S
PRETTY EVIDENT THAT THE
OPPOSITION IS UNINFORMED AND IS
PUTTING FORTH AN ARGUMENT THAT’S
NOT LAWFUL.
>> Reporter: ON TOP OF DILLARD’S
PROPOSED LAWSUIT, THE U.S.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR IT WAS ALSO LOOKING
INTO THE SITUATION IN KENNESAW.
GIVEN THE IMMENSE BLOWBACK AND
THAT THE MOSQUE WAS VOTED DOWN,
DO YOU WISH YOU HAD NOT STEPPED
OUT AND PUBLICLY DECLARED
YOURSELF IN FAVOR?
>> I DON’T LIKE THE PUBLICITY, I
DON’T LIKE THE SPOTLIGHT, I
DON’T LIKE ANY OF THAT.
I STILL THINK IT WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO, FOR ME.
AND I WOULD STILL DO IT AGAIN.
>> Reporter: FACING A POSSIBLE
LAWSUIT AND A POSSIBLE FEDERAL
INVESTIGATION, THE KENNESAW CITY
COUNCIL LAST WEEK MADE A
DRAMATIC TURNAROUND.
THE FOUR MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL
WHO’D VOTED NO ASKED THAT THEIR
VOTES BE WITHDRAWN AND CHANGED
TO YES VOTES.
THAT MADE FOR A UNANIMOUS
APPROVAL OF THE MOSQUE’S PERMIT.
IF NOTHING CHANGES, SUPPORTERS
OF THE MOSQUE SAY THEY’LL DROP
THEIR LAWSUIT AND HOPEFULLY SOON
BEGIN WORK PREPARING THE SITE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU PROBABLY
HEARD THAT DURING HIS NEWS
CONFERENCE YESTERDAY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA TOOK THE APPARENTLY
UNPRECEDENTED STEP OF ONLY
TAKING QUESTIONS FROM FEMALE
REPORTERS.
>> CARRIE BUDOFF.
CHERYL BOLEN.
JULIE PACE.
LESLIE CLARK.
ROBERTA RAMPTON.
>> Sreenivasan: IT MIGHT BE A
VERY SMALL EXAMPLE OF HOW THE
PRESIDENT, OFTEN CRITICIZED FOR
HIS CAUTION, IS NOW DOING THINGS
HIS OWN WAY AS HE BEGINS HIS
LAST TWO YEARS IN OFFICE.
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED BY PETER
BAKER, WHITE HOUSE REPORTER AT
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
SO IS THIS PRESS CONFERENCE AN
EXAMPLE OF THIS NEW PRESIDENT
OBAMA THAT WE’RE SEEING IN THE
LAST SIX WEEKS?
>> YEAH, THAT’S A GOOD QUESTION.
THE TRUTH IS I WAS IN THE ROOM,
HAD MY QUESTION READY TO GO, AND
I DIDN’T EVEN NOTICE THAT IT WAS
ONLY WOMEN BEING ASKED.
THE TRUTH IS, THERE ARE A LOT OF
STRONG, POWERFUL, AND INCREDIBLY
TALENTED WOMEN IN THE WHITE
HOUSE PRESS CORPS SO IT’S HARDLY
AN UNUSUAL THING TO HAVE THEM
ASK QUESTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT.
BUT WHAT’S INTERESTING, OF
COURSE, IS THE PRESIDENT IS
COMING OFF A PERIOD WHERE HE’S
SUPPOSED TO BE IN LAME DUCK
MODE, HAVING LOST RATHER
DECISIVELY THE MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
INSTEAD, HE’S CUT A CLIMATE DEAL
WITH CHINA.
HE’S ISSUED AN IMMIGRATION ORDER
THAT’S PRETTY SWEEPING.
AND THIS WEEK, OF COURSE, THE
BIG DIPLOMATIC OPENING TO CUBA.
SO, IF HE’S A LAME DUCK, HE
CLEARLY HASN’T GOTTEN THE MEMO.
HE WANTS TO SHOW HE’S NOT A LAME
DUCK AND WE’LL SEE HOW FAR HE
CAN TAKE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE THE
CALCULATIONS, AT LEAST FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE, THAT YOU’RE HEARING
THAT WENT INTO THIS?
CLEARLY IT WASN’T A SURPRISE
THAT HE HAD ALL THESE THINGS
LINED UP, AND WAS IT DEPENDENT
ON HOW THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS
TURNED OUT?
>> EACH OF THESE, OF COURSE, IS
A DIFFERENT THING.
HE HAD A TRIP TO CHINA SCHEDULED
FOR AFTER THE ELECTION,
REGARDLESS OF HOW THE ELECTION
TURNED OUT, AND THEY’VE BEEN
NEGOTIATING THE CLIMATE DEAL FOR
QUITE A WHILE.
THIS CUBA DEAL HAS BEEN IN THE
WORKS FOR 18 MONTHS.
I DON’T THINK IT’S DEPENDENT ON
THE ELECTION.
I DO THINK THE ELECTION, THOUGH,
AT LEAST ACCORDING TO HIS AIDES,
HAS GIVEN HIM A SENSE OF FEELING
LIBERATED NOT JUST FROM THE
CAMPAIGN BUT EVEN FROM HIS OWN
DEMOCRATS.
HE’S BEEN TAKING ON HIS OWN
FELLOW ALLIES IN CONGRESS ON A
COUPLE OF OCCASIONS SINCE THE
ELECTION.
HE NO LONGER FEELS WEDDED TO
THEM IN A WAY THAT HE FEELS HE
HAS TO WORRY ABOUT THEIR
ELECTION CHANCES BECAUSE THE
CAMPAIGN IS OVER.
HE CAN TAKE ON REPUBLICANS WHEN
IT COMES TO THING LIKE
IMMIGRATION.
HE CAN TAKE ON THE DEMOCRATS
WHEN IT COMES TO THINGS LIKE THE
TAX DEAL AND SPENDING DEALS THEY
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON.
IT’S GOING TO BE INTERESTING TO
SEE HOW HE TAKES THIS NEXT TWO
YEARS, WHETHER THIS IS A NEW
PRESIDENT OBAMA, WHETHER THIS IS
A TEMPORARY MOMENT, BUT IT’S
CERTAINLY BEEN A FASCINATING FEW
WEEKS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THIS ISN’T
TOO DISSIMILAR WITH WHAT
PRESIDENT BUSH DID IN HIS LAST
TWO YEARS RIGHT AFTER A PRETTY
BAD ELECTION RESULT THEN, TOO,
A MIDTERM.
>> AFTER HIS SECOND MIDTERM,
PRESIDENT BUSH CAME OUT HAVING
LOST BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS AND
TOOK AWAY A MESSAGE EXACTLY THE
OPPOSITE OF WHAT THE WINNERS OF
THAT ELECTION THOUGHT IT WAS.
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS A MANDATE TO
GET OUT OF IRAQ.
HE WENT THE OPPOSITE WAY.
HE DOUBLED DOWN.
HE SENT MORE TROOPS.
HE CHANGED THE STRATEGY.
HE SAID WE’RE GOING TO TAKE ONE
MORE SHOT AT WINNING THIS THING
AND I DON’T CARE IF THERE IS A
POLITICAL PRICE TO BE PAID.
AND IT DID PAY OFF FOR HIM
BECAUSE THE VIOLENCE WENT DOWN
SUBSTANTIALLY THE NEXT YEAR AND
HE WAS ABLE TO LEAVE BEHIND AN
IRAQ AT THE END OF HIS TERM THAT
LOOKED A WHOLE LOT BETTER THAN
THE ONE HE HAD IN FRONT OF HIM
AT THE END OF THAT MIDTERM.
HE DID DEFY, IN EFFECT, THE
RESULT OF THAT MIDTERM, AT LEAST
WHAT SOME PEOPLE THOUGHT
WAS THE RESULT OF THAT MIDTERM.
JUST AS PRESIDENT OBAMA SEEMS TO
BE TAKING HIS OWN COURSE FORWARD
REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE WINNERS
OF THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS WOULD
HAVE HIM DO.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW MUCH OF
THIS IS POLITICS AND HOW MUCH AN
INTEREST IN WHAT YOUR PERSONAL
LEGACY WILL BE WHEN YOU’RE
PRESIDENT?
>> I THINK IF YOU GET AT THIS
STAGE OF YOUR PRESIDENCY, YOU’RE
SIX YEARS DONE.
THE LARGEST LEGISLATIVE
ACHIEVEMENTS ARE USUALLY BEHIND
YOU AND START TO LOOK FOR OTHER
WAYS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
YOU START TO THINK ABOUT HOW
HISTORY WILL VIEW YOU.
OF COURSE, PRESIDENT OBAMA
TALKED FOR A LONG TIME ABOUT
REACHING OUT TO ROGUE ACTORS
LIKE CUBA, NORTH KOREA, IRAN,
AND SO FORTH.
CUBA SEEMED TO BE AN OPENING
THAT HE COULD, IN HIS VIEW,
ANYWAY, MAKE A DIFFERENCE
THAT WILL STAND IN THE HISTORY
BOOKS.
>> Sreenivasan: PETER BAKER
FROM THE "NEW YORK TIMES," THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU, HAPPY HOLIDAYS.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU PROBABLY
HAVEN’T GIVEN IT A LOT OF
THOUGHT, BUT, FOR CENTURIES,
MUSIC LARGELY CONSISTED OF MONKS
SINGING HYMNS WITH A SINGLE
MELODY-- WHAT’S KNOWN AS
MONOPHONY.
EXPERTS BELIEVED MUSIC CHANGED
ABOUT 1,100 YEARS AGO.
BUT, NOW, FOR THE FIRST TIME,
AFTER A CHANCE DISCOVERY, THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE PROOF OF IT.
MARTHA FAIRLIE OF ITN REPORTS
FROM LONDON.
♪
>> Reporter: WRITTEN MORE THAN A
MILLENNIUM AGO BUT
GROUNDBREAKING AT ITS TIME, THIS
TWO-PART CHANT WAS A CUTTING
EDGE COMPOSITION.
IT IS THE EARLIEST KNOWN
EXAMPLE OF POLYPHONIC MUSIC,
WHERE MORE THAN ONE MELODY
IS SUNG TOGETHER.
♪
AND ITS DISCOVERY ON A 10th
CENTURY MANUSCRIPT AT THE
BRITISH LIBRARY HAS EXCITED
MUSIC HISTORIANS.
>> WHAT’S FASCINATING IS WE KNOW
PEOPLE WERE SINGING IN TWO
DIFFERENT VOICE PATHS, SOMETIMES
THREE AT THIS TIME.
BUT NOBODY THOUGHT TO WRITE THE
MUSIC DOWN.
AND THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE
FOUND AN EXAMPLE FROM SUCH AN
EARLY DATE OF THE MUSIC ACTUALLY
WRITTEN DOWN.
>> Reporter: THE SCORE HAD BEEN
OVERLOOKED AND PARTIALLY
OBSCURED BY AN OFFICIAL LIBRARY
STAMP, BUT IT WAS DISCOVERED BY
A CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY Ph.D.
STUDENT WHILE HE WAS AN INTERN
AT THE LIBRARY.
AND IN ST JOHN’S COLLEGE CHAPEL,
THE ANCIENT SOUND HAS BEEN
REVEALED ONCE AGAIN.
♪
MONKS NEAR DUSSELDORF ARE
THOUGHT TO HAVE PENNED THE CHANT
TO GERMAN PATRON SAINT BONIFACE,
STARTING A CHORAL TRADITION THAT
STILL SURVIVES 1,100 YEARS
LATER.
♪
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
REPORTEDLY HAS ASKED CHINA FOR
HELP PREVENTING NORTH KOREA FROM
LAUNCHING CYBER ATTACKS.
CUBAN LEADER RAUL CASTRO TODAY
THANKED PRESIDENT OBAMA FOR
OPENING A NEW CHAPTER IN
RELATIONS, BUT HE SAID COMMUNISM
THERE WOULD ENDURE.
THE C.D.C. IS REPORTING
WIDESPREAD OUTBREAKS OF THE FLU
IN 29 STATES.
THIS YEAR’S VACCINE DOES NOT
PROTECT AGAINST ONE PROMINENT
STRAIN OF INFLUENZA MAKING THE
ROUNDS, BUT HEALTH EXPERTS SAY
GET VACCINATED ANYWAY.
AND TWO NEW YORK CITY POLICEMEN
WERE SHOT DEAD TODAY
EXECUTION-STYLE AS THEY SAT IN
THEIR PATROL CAR IN BROOKLYN.
THE GUNMAN LATER FATALLY SHOT
HIMSELF.
BEFORE THE INCIDENT, HE
APPRARENTLY HAD POSTED ON SOCIAL
MEDIA, SUGGESTING HE WAS
RETALIATING FOR THE CHOKING
DEATH OF ERIC GARNER.
I’M HARI SREENIVASAN.
SEE YOU BACK HERE TOMORROW
NIGHT.